[Arch] Streamline EventStream Runtime Image Building Logic (#3259)
OpenDevin/OpenDevin: docs/modules/usage/runtime.md

---
sidebar_position: 4
---

# OpenDevin EventStream Runtime

The OpenDevin EventStream Runtime is the core component that enables secure and flexible execution of AI agent's action.
It creates a sandboxed environment using Docker, where arbitrary code can be run safely without risking the host system.

> ## Why we need sandboxed runtime?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Why do we need a sandboxed runtime?
```

5. Communication: The OpenDevin backend (`runtime.py`) communicates with the runtime client over RESTful API, sending actions and receiving observations.

6. Action Execution: The runtime client receives actions from the backend, executes them in the sandboxed environment, and sends back observations.

7. Observation Return: The client sends execution results back to the OpenDevin backend as observations.

The role of the client is crucial:
- It acts as an intermediary between the OpenDevin backend and the sandboxed environment.
- It executes various types of actions (shell commands, file operations, Python code, etc.) safely within the container.
- It manages the state of the sandboxed environment, including the current working directory and loaded plugins.
- It formats and returns observations to the backend, ensuring a consistent interface for processing results.

## Advanced: How OpenDevin builds and maintains OD Runtime images

OpenDevin uses a sophisticated approach to build and manage runtime images. This process ensures efficiency, consistency, and flexibility in creating and maintaining Docker images for both production and development environments.

> Checkout [relavant code](https://github.com/OpenDevin/OpenDevin/blob/main/opendevin/runtime/utils/runtime_build.py) if you are interested in more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check out [relavant code](https://github.com/OpenDevin/OpenDevin/blob/main/opendevin/runtime/utils/runtime_build.py) if you are interested in more details.
```
